Android sample app (#31)
imagekit-samples/quickstart: android/README.md

# Introduction 

This sample project covers:

> 1. Setting up ImageKit iOS SDK

Reviewer: Android SDK

Author: Done. Please check

2. Rendering images
3. Setting authentication context for the SDK
4. Applying common image manipulations
5. Adding overlays to images
6. Client-side file uploading

# How to run locally

This project was bootstrapped with [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/install) using [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/). Head over to the link for installation if not already done.

> 

Reviewer: Should we mention the Gradle Version and Java Version to run the application as well?

Author: Doesn't seem necessary, since Android Studio itself gives the necessary suggestions to upgrade Gradle and JVM toolchains in case the build fails with the current versions.

## Setup authentication

In `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/MainActivity.kt`, set the following parameters for authentication:

```java
ImageKit.init(
   context = applicationContext,
   publicKey = "YOUR_IMAGEKIT_PUBLIC_KEY",
   urlEndpoint = "https://ik.imagekit.io/YOUR_IMAGEKIT_ID",
   transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.PATH,
   authenticationEndpoint = "http://localhost:8080/auth"
)
```

> Required parameters are `imageKitEndpoint`. The `clientPublicKey` and `authenticationEndpoint` parameter is optional and only needed if you want to use the SDK for client-side file upload. 

Reviewer: The naming for a couple of parameter are wrong
- `urlEndpoint` not `imagekitEndpoint`
- `publicKey` not `clientPublicKey`

You can get the value of [URL-endpoint](https://imagekit.io/dashboard#url-endpoints) from your ImageKit dashboard.
API public key can be obtained from the [developer](https://imagekit.io/dashboard#developers) section in your ImageKit dashboard.

> ### Run the app in android simulator:

Reviewer: `Run the app in Android simulator`

Build and Run in Android Studio

## Setup dummy backend for upload

Move to the server directory
```shell
cd Server
```

Create `.env` file by copying `sample.env`

```shell
cp sample.env .env
```

Set the following keys in `.env`

```shell
PRIVATE_KEY=private_XXXXXXXXXXXX
```

API private key can be obtained from the [developer](https://imagekit.io/dashboard#developers) section in your ImageKit dashboard.

Please note that file upload will only work if, along with the above, you have also defined `publicKey`, `urlEndpoint`, and `authenticationEndpoint` variables in `app/config/Imagekit.js`.

Install packages:

```bash
npm install
```

## Run the Node.js server

```
npm start
```

Node server will run at `http://localhost:8080`.

### Important Note
For ease for loading file, `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/FileUtils.kt` can be imported into your project and used like it is demonstrated in `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/UploadFileActivity.kt`.

# Demo Features Code Samples

> ## Setting up ImageKit iOS SDK

Reviewer: Android SDK

Author: Done. Please check

            urlEndpoint = "https://ik.imagekit.io/YOUR_IMAGEKIT_ID",
            transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.PATH,
            authenticationEndpoint = "http://localhost:8080/auth"
        )
        ...
  }
  ...
}
```

## Applying common image manipulations
```swift 
let url = ImageKit.getInstance().url("plant.jpeg", "https://ik.imagekit.io/demo/img")
            .width(300)
            .height(200)
            .cropMode(CropMode.PAD_RESIZE)
            .background("F3F3F3")
            .create()
```

## Adding overlays to images
```swift 
let url = ImageKit.getInstance()
            .url(
                src = "https://ik.imagekit.io/demo/medium_cafe_B1iTdD0C.jpg",
                transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.PATH
            )
            .overlayImage("logo-white_SJwqB4Nfe.png")
            .overlayX(10)
            .overlayY(20)
            .create()
```

## Client-side file uploading
```swift
ImageKit.getInstance().uploader().upload(
    file = file!!
    , fileName = file!!.name
    , useUniqueFilename = true
    , tags = arrayOf("nice", "copy", "books")
    , folder = "/dummy/folder/"
    , imageKitCallback = this
)

> ```

Reviewer: These should be Android docs, not iOS

Author: Fixed the docs and also added code examples for adaptive streaming URL and 3rd party image library extensions

# Introduction 

This sample project covers:

> 1. Setting up ImageKit Android SDK

Reviewer 2: Add links so that reader can skip to relevant section.

2. Rendering images
3. Setting authentication context for the SDK
4. Applying common image manipulations
5. Adding overlays to images
6. Client-side file uploading
7. Adaptive video streaming
8. Extensions for third party image loading libraries

# How to run locally

This project was bootstrapped with [Android Studio](https://developer.android.com/studio/install) using [Kotlin](https://kotlinlang.org/). Head over to the link for installation if not already done.

## Setup authentication

In `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/MainActivity.kt`, set the following parameters for authentication:

```kotlin
ImageKit.init(
   context = applicationContext,
   publicKey = "YOUR_IMAGEKIT_PUBLIC_KEY",
   urlEndpoint = "https://ik.imagekit.io/YOUR_IMAGEKIT_ID",
   transformationPosition = TransformationPosition.PATH,
)
```

> Required parameters are `urlEndpoint`. The `publicKey` parameter is optional and only needed if you want to use the SDK for client-side file upload. 

Reviewer 2: Basic grammatical mistakes.

You can get the value of [URL-endpoint](https://imagekit.io/dashboard#url-endpoints) from your ImageKit dashboard.
API public key can be obtained from the [developer](https://imagekit.io/dashboard#developers) section in your ImageKit dashboard.

### Run the app in android emulator:

Build and Run in Android Studio

## Setup dummy backend for upload

Move to the server directory
```shell
cd Server
```

Create `.env` file by copying `sample.env`

```shell
cp sample.env .env
```

Set the following keys in `.env`

```shell
PRIVATE_KEY=private_XXXXXXXXXXXX
```

API private key can be obtained from the [developer](https://imagekit.io/dashboard#developers) section in your ImageKit dashboard.

> Please note that file upload will only work if, along with the above, you have also defined `publicKey`, `urlEndpoint`, and `authenticationEndpoint` variables in `app/config/Imagekit.js`.

Reviewer: Use markdown note feature, please note i have updated the content also

> [!NOTE]
> Please note that file upload will only work if, along with the above, you have also defined `publicKey` and `urlEndpoint` variables in `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/MainActivity.kt`.

Install packages:

```bash
npm install
```

> ## Run the Node.js server

Reviewer: This should be a subheading under `Setup dummy backend for upload`

```
npm start
```

Node server will run at `http://localhost:8080`.

> ### Important Note
> For ease for loading file, `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/FileUtils.kt` can be imported into your project and used like it is demonstrated in `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/UploadFileActivity.kt`.

Reviewer: Having it as a blockquote would increase it's visibility and reduce it's criticality, because it is something to ease the customers integration process but not exactly critical

Just a recommendation from my end, can skip this also

```suggestion
> #### Recommendation
> For ease for loading file, `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/FileUtils.kt` can be imported into your project and used like it is demonstrated in `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/UploadFileActivity.kt`.
```

> > For ease for loading file, `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/FileUtils.kt` can be imported into your project and used like it is demonstrated in `app/src/main/java/io/imagekit/imagekitdemo/UploadFileActivity.kt`.

Reviewer 2: It should be `For ease of loading files`
